.pc

.TH FIND_ORPHANS 1 "2021-04-27" "1.0.0" "Checksum tools"
.SH NAME
find_orphans \- Find orphaned files

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B find_orphans 
.I objects reference_directory 
[ 
.I options 
]


.I objects
:= ( 
.I file
| 
.I directory
) [ \&... ]


.SH OVERVIEW

Show all files that exist either in \fIobjects\fR or \fIreference_directory\fR but not both.

.SH NOTES
Checksums will be computed and stored for all files that are missing them.

.SH OUTPUT

Output is one line for each orphan file found.
Each line consists of the directory, a tab, the filename, a tab, and the fingerprint (\f(CWMD5:size\fR or \f(CWMD5:size:lowercase_name\fR in same-name mode).
If the \fB--long-names\fR option is given then each line ends with two tabs followed by the full path of the file.

Sample output (without \fB--long-names\fR):

.nf
directory_1     filename_1      02c538f8e34d252ae22df357fcf75ea3:123
directory_2     filename_2      8b93959cee28415ffafd56da99c1a268:98765
.fi

Sample output (with \fB--long-names\fR):

.nf
directory_1     filename_1      02c538f8e34d252ae22df357fcf75ea3:123            directory_1/filename_1
directory_2     filename_2      8b93959cee28415ffafd56da99c1a268:98765          directory_2/filename_2.fi

.SH OPTIONS

.SS "Main options"

.TP
.B \-d\fR, \fB\-\-discard\-existing
Discard existing checksums and recompute them

.TP
.B \-n\fR, \fB\-\-same\-name
For a file to match it must have same filename (case-insensitive) as well as the same fingerprint.

.TP
.B \-N\fR, \fB\-\-long-names
Also show full path when displaying orphans

At some point a 
.B\-\-case\-insensitive 
option may be added; if this is done, the 
.B\-\-same\-name 
option will be case-sensitive unless case-insensitivity is explicitly requested.

.TP
.B \-r\fR, \fB\-\-recurse
Recurse into subdirectories (default)

.TP
.B \-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-recurse
Do not recurse into subdirectories

.TP
.B \-x\fR, \fB\-\-one\-filesystem
Don't cross filesystem boundaries while recursing

.TP
.B \-\-escape\-filenames=\fImode

Escape special characters in file and directory names.

.I mode 
can be \f(CWoctal\fR, \f(CWhex\fR, \f(CWHEX\fR, \f(CWshell\fR, \f(CWuri\fR, or \f(CWURI\fR.

In \f(CWshell\fR mode strings with special characters will have them octal encoded and wrapped so as to be suitable for direct shell usage (i.e. \f(CWESCAPED\fR becomes \f(CW$'ESCAPED'\fR).

In both URI modes strings with special characters will have them hex encoded in a format suitable for usage in a URI (i.e. as \f(CW%XX\fR where \f(CWX\fR is a hex digit).

Lowercase hex digits are output in \f(CWhex\fR and \f(CWuri\fR modes.

Uppercase hex digits are output in \f(CWHEX\fR and \f(CWURI\fR modes. 

.SS "Core options"
The following options can be used with any command in the 
.B checksum_tools 
suite:

.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Show brief usage message

.TP
.B \-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\-all
Show detailed usage message

.TP
.B \-\-help\-core
Show options supported by all commands

.TP
.B \-A\fR, \fB\-\-no\-act
Do not delete or move any files (\f(CW.md5sums\fR and extended attribute metadata may be updated)

.TP
.B \-b\fR, \fB\-\-built\-in\-copy
Use a built-in function to copy files (instead of using e.g. \fBcp \-ap\fR); this is also used when copying files or moving files across devices.

(not currently implemented)

.TP
.B \-c\fR, \fB\-\-compute\-missing
Compute and store MD5 checksums when not present

(default)

.TP
.B \-\-no\-compute\-missing
Don't compute or store missing MD5 checksums

.TP
.B \-d\fR, \fB\-\-discard\-existing
Discard existing checksums and recompute them

.TP
.B \-E\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-symlinks
Directories holding only symlinks or subdirectories (no regular files) are considered empty.

.TP
.B \-n\fR, \fB\-\-same\-name
For a file to match it must have same filename (case-insensitive) as well as the same fingerprint.

At some point a \f(CW--case-insensitive\fR option may be added; if this is done, the \f(CW--same-name\fR option will be case-sensitive unless case-insensitivity is explicitly requested.

.TP
.B \-O\fR, \fB\-\-overwrite
Allow overwriting of existing files

.TP
.B \-P\fR, \fB\-\-preserve
Never overwrite existing files

Attempting to overwrite an exising file will display a warning to \f(CWSTDERR\fR then continue.

.TP
.B \-r\fR, \fB\-\-recurse
Recurse into subdirectories (default)

.TP
.B \-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-recurse
Do not recurse into subdirectories

.TP
.B \-x\fR, \fB\-\-one\-filesystem
Don't cross filesystem boundaries while recursing

.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-no_md5sums
If set then directories will be processed even if they contain a \f(CW.no_md5sums\fR file.

.TP
.B \-\-never\-rewrite\-checksums
If set then neither extended attributes nor the \f(CW.md5sums\fR files will be written to under any circumstances.

.TP
.B \-\-only\-write\-xa
If set then checksums will only be written to extended attributes (\f(CW.md5sums\fR files will be not be written to under any circumstances).


.SH AUTHOR

.B checksums_tools
is written by Alexander Hajnal.

The latest version can be downloaded from 
.IP
https://github.com/Alex-Kent/checksum_tools/
.PP
Any problems can be reported to the issue tracker at 
.IP
https://github.com/Alex-Kent/checksum_tools/issues
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR checksum_tool (1), 
.BR clear_checksums (1),
.BR cull_dupes (1),
.BR find_dupes (1),
.BR get_metadata (1),
.BR link_dupes (1),
.BR prune_dirs (1),
.BR restore_to_xa_location (1),
.BR symlink_dupes (1),
.BR update_checksums (1),
.BR verify_checksums (1)

Usage examples can be found in 
.BR checksum_tool (1)
\.

.BR /usr/local/share/checksum_tools/README.md
provides a full description of how to use the software.

.SH LICENSE

checksum_tools \(co 2021 Alexander Hajnal

This software is licensed under version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License.  See the 
.B LICENSE
file (included with this software) to view the full text of the license.


