.pc

.TH GET_METADATA 1 "2025-07-12" "1.2.0" "Checksum tools"
.SH NAME
get_metadata \- Display file metadata

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B get_metadata
( 
.I file
|
.I directory
) [ \&... ] [
.I options
]

.SH OVERVIEW

Display file metadata (standard and extended attributes).
One use for this is making a backup copy of the files' attributes.
Note that there is currently no way to explicitly set file metadata using \fBchecksum_tools\fR.

.SH OUTPUT
Metadata for all files is written to \f(CWSTDOUT\fR (one file per line).
Metadata is reported as key/value pairs (\f(CIkey\f(CW:\f(CIvalue\fR) with a single tab between each pair.
If an attribute is not present for a file (e.g. \fBjpeg.md5\fR for a text file) then the attribute is not listed (i.e. attributes do not have \f(CWNULL\fR values). 
The following attributes may be reported:

.TS
lw12 lw15.
\fBpath\fR	\fRCurrent path (either relative or absolute)
\fBname\fR	\fRName
\fBtype\fR	\fROne of: \f(CWdir\fR \f(CWfile\fR \f(CWlink\fR \f(CWblock\fR \fBchar\fR \f(CWfifo\fR \f(CWsocket\fR
\fBmode\fR	\fRMode bits (4-digit octal)
\fBuser\fR	\fROwner: \f(CW\f(CInumber\f(CR (\f(CIname\f(CR)\f(CR
\fBgroup\fR	\fRGroup: \f(CW\f(CInumber\f(CR (\f(CIname\f(CR)\f(CR
\fBsize\fR	\fRSize (only for files)
\fBmtime\fR	\fRModification time (UNIX timestamp)
\fBtarget\fR	\fRSymlink's target
\fBdevice\fR	\fRDevice major and minor values: \f(CW\f(CIminor\f(CB,\f(CIminor\fR
\fBoriginal\fR	\fROriginal location (path and filename)
\fBmd5\fR	\fRMD5 checksum of entire file
\fBmd5.mtime\fR	\fRFile's mtime when MD5 checksum was computed
\fBmd5.size\fR	\fRFile's size when MD5 checksum was computed
\fBmd5.valid\fR	\fRWhether stored file checksum is probably accurate (\f(CWyes\fR or \f(CWno\fR).
\fBmd5.source\fR	\fRSource of checksum data (either \f(CWattributes\fR or \f(CWmd5sums\fR)
.TE

Extended attributes are also reported as \fBxa.\f(BInamespace\fB.\f(BIname\fR. On platforms that don't support extended attribute namespaces all attributes appear under the \fBuser\fR namespace (e.g. \fBxa.user.\f(BIname\fR).

Of interest is \fBxa.user.jpeg.md5\fR (\fBxa.jpeg.md5\fR on some platforms) which, for JPEG files is the MD5 checksum of file's JPEG data (as computed by \fBjpeg_checksum_tools\fR).

.SH NOTES
Missing file checksums will be computed unless the \fB\-\-no\-compute\-missing\fR option is specified.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS "Main options"

.TP
.B \-c\fR, \fB\-\-compute\-missing
Compute and store MD5 checksums when not present (default)

.TP
.B \-\-no\-compute\-missing
Don't compute or store missing MD5 checksums

.TP
.B \-d\fR, \fB\-\-discard\-existing
Discard existing checksums and recompute them

.TP
.B \-r\fR, \fB\-\-recurse
Recurse into subdirectories (default)

.TP
.B \-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-recurse
Do not recurse into subdirectories

.TP
.B \-x\fR, \fB\-\-one\-filesystem
Don't cross filesystem boundaries while recursing

.TP
.B \-\-escape\-filenames=\fImode

Escape special characters in file and directory names.

.I mode 
can be \f(CWoctal\fR, \f(CWhex\fR, \f(CWHEX\fR, \f(CWshell\fR, \f(CWuri\fR, or \f(CWURI\fR.

In \f(CWshell\fR mode strings with special characters will have them octal encoded and wrapped so as to be suitable for direct shell usage (i.e. \f(CWESCAPED\fR becomes \f(CW$'ESCAPED'\fR).

In both URI modes strings with special characters will have them hex encoded in a format suitable for usage in a URI (i.e. as \f(CW%XX\fR where \f(CWX\fR is a hex digit).

Lowercase hex digits are output in \f(CWhex\fR and \f(CWuri\fR modes.

Uppercase hex digits are output in \f(CWHEX\fR and \f(CWURI\fR modes. 

.SS "Core options"
The following options can be used with any command in the 
.B checksum_tools 
suite:

.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Show brief usage message

.TP
.B \-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\-all
Show detailed usage message

.TP
.B \-\-help\-core
Show options supported by all commands

.TP
.B \-A\fR, \fB\-\-no\-act
Do not delete or move any files (\f(CW.md5sums\fR and extended attribute metadata may be updated)

.TP
.B \-b\fR, \fB\-\-built\-in\-copy
Use a built-in function to copy files (instead of using e.g. \fBcp \-ap\fR); this is also used when copying files or moving files across devices.

(not currently implemented)

.TP
.B \-c\fR, \fB\-\-compute\-missing
Compute and store MD5 checksums when not present

(default)

.TP
.B \-\-no\-compute\-missing
Don't compute or store missing MD5 checksums

.TP
.B \-d\fR, \fB\-\-discard\-existing
Discard existing checksums and recompute them

.TP
.B \-E\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-symlinks
Directories holding only symlinks or subdirectories (no regular files) are considered empty.

.TP
.B \-n\fR, \fB\-\-same\-name
For a file to match it must have same filename (case-insensitive) as well as the same fingerprint.

At some point a \f(CW--case-insensitive\fR option may be added; if this is done, the \f(CW--same-name\fR option will be case-sensitive unless case-insensitivity is explicitly requested.

.TP
.B \-O\fR, \fB\-\-overwrite
Allow overwriting of existing files

.TP
.B \-P\fR, \fB\-\-preserve
Never overwrite existing files

Attempting to overwrite an exising file will display a warning to \f(CWSTDERR\fR then continue.

.TP
.B \-r\fR, \fB\-\-recurse
Recurse into subdirectories (default)

.TP
.B \-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-recurse
Do not recurse into subdirectories

.TP
.B \-x\fR, \fB\-\-one\-filesystem
Don't cross filesystem boundaries while recursing

.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-no_md5sums
If set then directories will be processed even if they contain a \f(CW.no_md5sums\fR file.

Since this command always ignores \f(CW.no_md5sums\fR files, this option has no effect.

.TP
.B \-\-never\-rewrite\-checksums
If set then neither extended attributes nor the \f(CW.md5sums\fR files will be written to under any circumstances.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-user\-settings\-file
Don't read default settings from \fB~/.checksum_tool\fR

.TP
.B \-\-only\-write\-xa
If set then checksums will only be written to extended attributes (\f(CW.md5sums\fR files will be not be written to under any circumstances).


.SH AUTHOR

.B checksums_tools
is written by Alexander Hajnal.

The latest version can be downloaded from 
.IP
https://github.com/Alex-Kent/checksum_tools/
.PP
Any problems can be reported to the issue tracker at 
.IP
https://github.com/Alex-Kent/checksum_tools/issues
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR checksum_tool (1), 
.BR clear_checksums (1),
.BR cull_dupes (1),
.BR find_dupes (1),
.BR find_orphans (1),
.BR link_dupes (1),
.BR prune_dirs (1),
.BR restore_to_xa_location (1),
.BR symlink_dupes (1),
.BR update_checksums (1),
.BR verify_checksums (1)

Usage examples can be found in 
.BR checksum_tool (1)
\.

.BR /usr/local/share/checksum_tools/README.md
provides a full description of how to use the software.

.SH LICENSE

checksum_tools \(co 2025 Alexander Hajnal

This software is licensed under version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License.  See the 
.B LICENSE
file (included with this software) to view the full text of the license.


