.pc

.TH LINK_DUPES 1 "2021-04-27" "1.0.0" "Checksum tools"
.SH NAME
link_dupes \- Replace duplicate files with links

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B link_dupes 
.I objects reference_directory 
[ 
.I options 
]
.br
.B link_dupes 
.I directory 
[
.I options 
]

.I objects
:= ( 
.I file
| 
.I directory
) [ \&... ]

.SH OVERVIEW

Replace any files in \fIobjects\fR that exist in \fIreference_directory\fR with links to the latter.
When called with a single directory then any duplicate files in the directory are linked to one of the copies.

.SH NOTES
Hard links will be used whenever possible; if this cannot be done (e.g. cross-device links) then symbolic links will be used.
When symbolic links are used, relative links are used if the file being pointed by the link to has a relative path and absolute links are used if the file being pointed to has an absolute path.
The the \fB--link-absolute\fR option can be used to force the use of absolute links and \fB--link-relative\fR can be used to force use of relative links.

The \fBsymlink_dupes\fR command behaves similar to this one except that it always uses symbolic links (not hard links).

Checksums will be computed and stored for all files that are missing them.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS "Main options"

.TP
.B \-A\fR, \fB\-\-no\-act
Do not delete or move any files (\f(CW.md5sums\fR and extended attribute metadata may be updated)

.TP
.B \-b\fR, \fB\-\-built\-in\-copy
Use a built\-in function to copy files (instead of using e.g. \f(CWcp\ \-ap\fR); this is also used when copying files or moving files across devices.

(not currently implemented)

.TP
.B \-d\fR, \fB\-\-discard\-existing
Discard existing checksums and recompute them

.TP
.B \-l\fR, \fB\-\-link\-relative
When symlinking always use relative links

.TP
.B \-L\fR, \fB\-\-link\-absolute
When symlinking always use absolute links

.TP
.B \-m\fR \fIdir\fR, \fB\-\-move\-dupes \fIdir\fR
Move duplicate files into the directory 
.I dir\fR.

These can later be restored to the original locations using 
.B restore_to_xa_location\fR.

.TP
.B \-n\fR, \fB\-\-same\-name
For a file to match it must have same filename (case-insensitive) as well as the same fingerprint.

At some point a 
.B\-\-case\-insensitive 
option may be added; if this is done, the 
.B\-\-same\-name 
option will be case-sensitive unless case-insensitivity is explicitly requested.

.TP
.B \-O\fR, \fB\-\-overwrite
Allow overwriting of existing files

.TP
.B \-P\fR, \fB\-\-preserve
Never overwrite existing files

Attempting to overwrite an exising file will display a warning to \f(CWSTDERR\fR then continue.

.TP
.B \-r\fR, \fB\-\-recurse
Recurse into subdirectories (default)

.TP
.B \-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-recurse
Do not recurse into subdirectories

.TP
.B \-x\fR, \fB\-\-one\-filesystem
Don't cross filesystem boundaries while recursing

.SS "Core options"
The following options can be used with any command in the 
.B checksum_tools 
suite:

.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Show brief usage message

.TP
.B \-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\-all
Show detailed usage message

.TP
.B \-\-help\-core
Show options supported by all commands

.TP
.B \-A\fR, \fB\-\-no\-act
Do not delete or move any files (\f(CW.md5sums\fR and extended attribute metadata may be updated)

.TP
.B \-b\fR, \fB\-\-built\-in\-copy
Use a built-in function to copy files (instead of using e.g. \fBcp \-ap\fR); this is also used when copying files or moving files across devices.

(not currently implemented)

.TP
.B \-c\fR, \fB\-\-compute\-missing
Compute and store MD5 checksums when not present

(default)

.TP
.B \-\-no\-compute\-missing
Don't compute or store missing MD5 checksums

.TP
.B \-d\fR, \fB\-\-discard\-existing
Discard existing checksums and recompute them

.TP
.B \-E\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-symlinks
Directories holding only symlinks or subdirectories (no regular files) are considered empty.

.TP
.B \-n\fR, \fB\-\-same\-name
For a file to match it must have same filename (case-insensitive) as well as the same fingerprint.

At some point a \f(CW--case-insensitive\fR option may be added; if this is done, the \f(CW--same-name\fR option will be case-sensitive unless case-insensitivity is explicitly requested.

.TP
.B \-O\fR, \fB\-\-overwrite
Allow overwriting of existing files

.TP
.B \-P\fR, \fB\-\-preserve
Never overwrite existing files

Attempting to overwrite an exising file will display a warning to \f(CWSTDERR\fR then continue.

.TP
.B \-r\fR, \fB\-\-recurse
Recurse into subdirectories (default)

.TP
.B \-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-recurse
Do not recurse into subdirectories

.TP
.B \-x\fR, \fB\-\-one\-filesystem
Don't cross filesystem boundaries while recursing

.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-no_md5sums
If set then directories will be processed even if they contain a \f(CW.no_md5sums\fR file.

.TP
.B \-\-never\-rewrite\-checksums
If set then neither extended attributes nor the \f(CW.md5sums\fR files will be written to under any circumstances.

.TP
.B \-\-only\-write\-xa
If set then checksums will only be written to extended attributes (\f(CW.md5sums\fR files will be not be written to under any circumstances).


.SH AUTHOR

.B checksums_tools
is written by Alexander Hajnal.

The latest version can be downloaded from 
.IP
https://github.com/Alex-Kent/checksum_tools/
.PP
Any problems can be reported to the issue tracker at 
.IP
https://github.com/Alex-Kent/checksum_tools/issues
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR checksum_tool (1), 
.BR clear_checksums (1),
.BR cull_dupes (1),
.BR find_dupes (1),
.BR find_orphans (1),
.BR get_metadata (1),
.BR prune_dirs (1),
.BR restore_to_xa_location (1),
.BR symlink_dupes (1),
.BR update_checksums (1),
.BR verify_checksums (1)

Usage examples can be found in 
.BR checksum_tool (1)
\.

.BR /usr/local/share/checksum_tools/README.md
provides a full description of how to use the software.

.SH LICENSE

checksum_tools \(co 2021 Alexander Hajnal

This software is licensed under version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License.  See the 
.B LICENSE
file (included with this software) to view the full text of the license.


