.pc

.TH PRUNE_DIRS 1 "2025-07-12" "1.2.0" "Checksum tools"
.SH NAME
prune_dirs \- Recursively delete empty directories

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B prune_dirs
.I directory
[ \&... ] [
.I options
]

.SH OVERVIEW

Recursively delete directories that are considered to be empty.

.SH NOTES
Directories are considered empty if they contain no files besides \f(CW.md5sums\fR, \f(CW.img-md5sums\fR, \f(CW.atom\fR, \f(CW.DS_Store\fR, \f(CW.directory\fR, \f(CW.folder.png\fR, \f(CWThumbs.db\fR, \f(CWDesktop.ini\fR, \f(CWBBThumbs.dat\fR, or \f(CW.DS_Store\fR and no non-empty subdirectories besides \f(CW.xvpics\fR, \f(CW.pics\fR, or \f(CW.AppleDouble\fR. In addition, if the \fB\-\-ignore\-symlinks\fR option is given then directories containing only symbolic links and no files (special or otherwise, beyond those mentioned above) are also considered to be empty.

Normally, empty subdirectories are deleted even when there parent isn't empty.  To only allow deletion of fully-empty top-level directories specify \fB\-\-all\-or\-nothing\fR on the commandline.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS "Main options"

.TP
.B \-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\-or\-nothing
Only act if the entire object would be affected.

For example, running \fBprune_dirs\fR on an object with this option active will only perform deletions if the entire object would be deleted.

.TP
.B \-A\fR, \fB\-\-no\-act
Do not delete or move any files (\f(CW.md5sums\fR and extended attribute metadata may be updated)

.TP
.B \-E\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-symlinks
Do not delete or move any files (\f(CW.md5sums\fR and extended attribute metadata may be updated)
.TP
.B \-r\fR, \fB\-\-recurse
Recurse into subdirectories (default)

.TP
.B \-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-recurse
Do not recurse into subdirectories

.TP
.B \-x\fR, \fB\-\-one\-filesystem
Don't cross filesystem boundaries while recursing.

.SS "Core options"
The following options can be used with any command in the 
.B checksum_tools 
suite:

.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Show brief usage message

.TP
.B \-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\-all
Show detailed usage message

.TP
.B \-\-help\-core
Show options supported by all commands

.TP
.B \-A\fR, \fB\-\-no\-act
Do not delete or move any files (\f(CW.md5sums\fR and extended attribute metadata may be updated)

.TP
.B \-b\fR, \fB\-\-built\-in\-copy
Use a built-in function to copy files (instead of using e.g. \fBcp \-ap\fR); this is also used when copying files or moving files across devices.

(not currently implemented)

.TP
.B \-c\fR, \fB\-\-compute\-missing
Compute and store MD5 checksums when not present

(default)

.TP
.B \-\-no\-compute\-missing
Don't compute or store missing MD5 checksums

.TP
.B \-d\fR, \fB\-\-discard\-existing
Discard existing checksums and recompute them

.TP
.B \-E\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-symlinks
Directories holding only symlinks or subdirectories (no regular files) are considered empty.

.TP
.B \-n\fR, \fB\-\-same\-name
For a file to match it must have same filename (case-insensitive) as well as the same fingerprint.

At some point a \f(CW--case-insensitive\fR option may be added; if this is done, the \f(CW--same-name\fR option will be case-sensitive unless case-insensitivity is explicitly requested.

.TP
.B \-O\fR, \fB\-\-overwrite
Allow overwriting of existing files

.TP
.B \-P\fR, \fB\-\-preserve
Never overwrite existing files

Attempting to overwrite an exising file will display a warning to \f(CWSTDERR\fR then continue.

.TP
.B \-r\fR, \fB\-\-recurse
Recurse into subdirectories (default)

.TP
.B \-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-recurse
Do not recurse into subdirectories

.TP
.B \-x\fR, \fB\-\-one\-filesystem
Don't cross filesystem boundaries while recursing

.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-no_md5sums
If set then directories will be processed even if they contain a \f(CW.no_md5sums\fR file.

Since this command always ignores \f(CW.no_md5sums\fR files, this option has no effect.

.TP
.B \-\-never\-rewrite\-checksums
If set then neither extended attributes nor the \f(CW.md5sums\fR files will be written to under any circumstances.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-user\-settings\-file
Don't read default settings from \fB~/.checksum_tool\fR

.TP
.B \-\-only\-write\-xa
If set then checksums will only be written to extended attributes (\f(CW.md5sums\fR files will be not be written to under any circumstances).


.SH AUTHOR

.B checksums_tools
is written by Alexander Hajnal.

The latest version can be downloaded from 
.IP
https://github.com/Alex-Kent/checksum_tools/
.PP
Any problems can be reported to the issue tracker at 
.IP
https://github.com/Alex-Kent/checksum_tools/issues
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR checksum_tool (1), 
.BR clear_checksums (1),
.BR cull_dupes (1),
.BR find_dupes (1),
.BR find_orphans (1),
.BR get_metadata (1),
.BR link_dupes (1),
.BR restore_to_xa_location (1),
.BR symlink_dupes (1),
.BR update_checksums (1),
.BR verify_checksums (1)

Usage examples can be found in 
.BR checksum_tool (1)
\.

.BR /usr/local/share/checksum_tools/README.md
provides a full description of how to use the software.

.SH LICENSE

checksum_tools \(co 2025 Alexander Hajnal

This software is licensed under version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License.  See the 
.B LICENSE
file (included with this software) to view the full text of the license.


