.pc

.TH RESTORE_TO_XA_LOCATION 1 "2021-04-27" "1.0.0" "Checksum tools"
.SH NAME
restore_to_xa_location \- Move files back to their original locations

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B restore_to_xa_location
( 
.I file
|
.I directory
) [ \&... ] [
.I options
]

.SH OVERVIEW

Move files back to the their original locations (as stored in each file's \fBuser.meta.original_path\fR attribute).

.SH NOTES
By default, existing symlinks will be overwritten but not files.
To always allow overwriting use the \fB\-\-overwrite\fR (\fB-O\fR) option; to never allow overwriting use the \fB\-\-preserve\fR (\fB-P\fR) option.
In any case, attempting to overwrite a directory or special file will display a (non-fatal) warning to \f(CWSTDERR\fR and the source file will not be moved.
The same applies when \fB\-\-preserve\fR is active.

No action will be taken on a file being restored if it is not a regular file or has no \fBuser.meta.original_path\fR attribute.

Missing directories will be recreated but their ownership, permissions, and extended attributes will not be restored.

This command requires filesystem support for user-defined extended attributes. Currently, \f(CW.md5sums\fR files are not updated.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS "Main options"

.TP
.B \-A\fR, \fB\-\-no\-act
Do not delete or move any files (\f(CW.md5sums\fR and extended attribute metadata may be updated)

.TP
.B \-b\fR, \fB\-\-built\-in\-copy
Use a built-in function to copy files (instead of using e.g. \fBcp \-ap\fR); this is also used when copying files or moving files across devices.

(not currently implemented)

.TP
.B \-O\fR, \fB\-\-overwrite
Allow overwriting of existing files

.TP
.B \-P\fR, \fB\-\-preserve
Never overwrite existing files

Attempting to overwrite an exising file will display a warning to \f(CWSTDERR\fR then continue.

.TP
.B \-r\fR, \fB\-\-recurse
Recurse into subdirectories (default)

.TP
.B \-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-recurse
Do not recurse into subdirectories

.TP
.B \-x\fR, \fB\-\-one\-filesystem
Don't cross filesystem boundaries while recursing

.SS "Core options"
The following options can be used with any command in the 
.B checksum_tools 
suite:

.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Show brief usage message

.TP
.B \-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\-all
Show detailed usage message

.TP
.B \-\-help\-core
Show options supported by all commands

.TP
.B \-A\fR, \fB\-\-no\-act
Do not delete or move any files (\f(CW.md5sums\fR and extended attribute metadata may be updated)

.TP
.B \-b\fR, \fB\-\-built\-in\-copy
Use a built-in function to copy files (instead of using e.g. \fBcp \-ap\fR); this is also used when copying files or moving files across devices.

(not currently implemented)

.TP
.B \-c\fR, \fB\-\-compute\-missing
Compute and store MD5 checksums when not present

(default)

.TP
.B \-\-no\-compute\-missing
Don't compute or store missing MD5 checksums

.TP
.B \-d\fR, \fB\-\-discard\-existing
Discard existing checksums and recompute them

.TP
.B \-E\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-symlinks
Directories holding only symlinks or subdirectories (no regular files) are considered empty.

.TP
.B \-n\fR, \fB\-\-same\-name
For a file to match it must have same filename (case-insensitive) as well as the same fingerprint.

At some point a \f(CW--case-insensitive\fR option may be added; if this is done, the \f(CW--same-name\fR option will be case-sensitive unless case-insensitivity is explicitly requested.

.TP
.B \-O\fR, \fB\-\-overwrite
Allow overwriting of existing files

.TP
.B \-P\fR, \fB\-\-preserve
Never overwrite existing files

Attempting to overwrite an exising file will display a warning to \f(CWSTDERR\fR then continue.

.TP
.B \-r\fR, \fB\-\-recurse
Recurse into subdirectories (default)

.TP
.B \-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-recurse
Do not recurse into subdirectories

.TP
.B \-x\fR, \fB\-\-one\-filesystem
Don't cross filesystem boundaries while recursing

.TP
.B \-\-never\-rewrite\-checksums
If set then neither extended attributes nor the \f(CW.md5sums\fR files will be written to under any circumstances.

.SH AUTHOR

.B checksums_tools
is written by Alexander Hajnal.

The latest version can be downloaded from 
.IP
https://github.com/Alex-Kent/checksum_tools/
.PP
Any problems can be reported to the issue tracker at 
.IP
https://github.com/Alex-Kent/checksum_tools/issues
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR checksum_tool (1), 
.BR clear_checksums (1),
.BR cull_dupes (1),
.BR find_dupes (1),
.BR find_orphans (1),
.BR get_metadata (1),
.BR link_dupes (1),
.BR prune_dirs (1),
.BR symlink_dupes (1),
.BR update_checksums (1),
.BR verify_checksums (1)

Usage examples can be found in 
.BR checksum_tool (1)
\.

.BR /usr/local/share/checksum_tools/README.md
provides a full description of how to use the software.

.SH LICENSE

checksum_tools \(co 2021 Alexander Hajnal

This software is licensed under version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License.  See the 
.B LICENSE
file (included with this software) to view the full text of the license.


